## AdaptvyBio Round 2 Competition Results

This repository contains the BindCraft inputs, all pre-filtered results, and filtering notebook used for the Adaptvy Bio Round 2 Protein Design competition. One of the filtered binders (chuh.EGFR_Seg2_l58_s53469_mpnn1) achived ~368nM binding affinity to EGFR which was the 23rd best binder overall and the 3rd best binder in the BindCraft category. You can see the ranking and the full competition result here (https://foundry.adaptyvbio.com/competition?design=697dec56-9c3e-4e6c-badb-61de116cd395).

## Design Process
Given the performance of BindCraft (Pacesa M. et al, bioRxiv2024) in the first round of the Adaptyv Bio competition, we decided to use this tool as our choice of binder design. To begin our design process, we first extracted the two Receptor L-domains (Segment 1: residue 4-161; Segment 2: residue 312-480) within the EGFR extracellular domain (PDB: 6aru) as starting target protein structures. The reason for this is three-fold: the first is computational efficiency, where shorter proteins, especially those with abundant homologs, are easier to model and tend to fold faster for in silico validation. The second is to expand the potential binding interface of the binders, where some protein interfaces may be more conducive to higher affinity binding than others. The third is to increase our chance of being selected for experimental validation due to the overlapping evaluation metric of the competition and the metrics used by BindCraft as part of the generation and filtering process (AF2 paeinteraction and ipTM). After preparing the input structures, we decided to use the default filtering metrics as provided by the BindCraft GitHub with binder lengths ranging between 50 to 65 with no hotspot given on the target structures. The reason for the small binders is in part due to computational efficiency as previously mentioned but also due to previously reported success of de novo high affinity EGFR binders in the same length range (Cao L. et al, Nature 2022). After 100 binders passing in-silico filters were generated for each of the segments, we further filtered to binders with “Average Binder ipTM” > 0.8 and “Average Binder pTM” > 0.75. This produced 5 binders targeting Segment 1 and 11 binders targeting Segment 2. The predicted binder-target complexes are then aligned to the original 6aru pdb file for manual inspection of the binding interface and overall shape validity of the binders. One of the Segment 1 binders is predicted to bind to EGFR at a location that overlaps with the rest of the EGFR structure and was removed, leaving 6 binders available for Segment 2. Among the rest of the filter-passing binders, we ranked based on “Average_Binder_pTM” and selected the top 6 binders, limiting to one sequence per backbone. This resulted in the final 10 designs, 4 targeting Segment 1 and 6 targeting Segment 2.